Lab 3:
layout: post
title: Week 3 Lab
published: true

Lab 4:
---
TryHackMe Tutorial: 

My first step was to hit “deploy machine” and start the attack box to open up the side panel. I then opened the firefox browser and pasted in the provided IP address into the search bar. Once there, I found the flag “flag{connection_verified}” and entered it into the answer box. 

 

TryHackMe OpenVPN:  

I downloaded the program and file from the access page it recommended that I download. Setting up the VPN, I followed the instructions to right click and import the file with my name. After importing the file, I hit connect and it popped up after a few seconds saying it was connected. It instructed me to type in the IP address and the flag was “flag{connection_verified}” 













Lab 3:
layout: post
title: Week 3 Lab
published: true
---
Level 0: They gave me the password and I entered it in putty to get into the level.

Level 0>1: After logging in, I tried searching "ls" which gave me a file called read me, I used the command "cat readme" which gave me the password.
Level 1>2: After logging in with the password, I tried to do ls to list the files and all that I got was "-". I tried to do "cat -" and had no luck, so I tried a few more options "-" by its self, "cat "-"" before trying to google it. Found this website: https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/16357/usage-of-dash-in-place-of-a-filename  which explained and taught me that  I needed to try " cat ./-" instead to access it and when I entered that, it worked and gave me the password. 


Level 2>3: Pasted the password and did "ls" which lead me to "spaces in this file name" cat. I had some trouble figuring out the formatting again. Tried "cat spaces in this file name, but it seemed to try to search each letter and each returned nothing. I looked up how to search the file names like these and they suggested using " before and after the file name, or to use / after each word. I didn't have luck with / but had luck with "". Got the password after searching that file name.


Level 3>4: At this point, I stopped and decided to watch some videos on the different commands to understand them more, so I could use them more skillfully and meaningfully rather than just inputting and shrugging. I learned more about what ls is, how to open hidden files, and other basic info. I am a very visual learner. I opened level 4 and used "ls" from there i saw the file "inhere" and I tried to use "cat a, cat -a, ls -a" trying different things and nothing was working. I tried ls again and then tried "cd inhere" then ls -a and finally cat .hidden and it dropped the password. 


Level 4>5: Follow a lot of the steps from level 4. Ls which revealed inhere, la -a, then I got stuck. The site hints made me curious about the human readable file and the file size so I used Find and it dropped a bunch of tiles. I searched each one using "cat ./-file)" and none of them were legible until I got to file07 which dropped the password. 


Level 5>6: "ls" to find "inhere". This one I really struggled with so I did look it up. I tried cd inhere and then used "find .-readable -size 1033c ! executable" and then did "cat maybehere07./file2". I learned that c stands for byte and using ! means not. This one confused me a ton. 


Level 6>7: Entered the password and saw that in the notes, it spoke about the file being owned by user as well as a group and a file size. I searched google to try to find how to search for an owner or group of a file. I used "find / -user bandit7" and got about 20 "permission denied" messages all at once. Doing some more digging, I found you can search all of the terms at once, so I tried "find / -user bandit7 -group bandit6 -size 33" and it failed, after more searching it's because I need to add a c after the numbers, to indicate bytes. Then I realized it was supposed to say all of the permission denied entries and there was one hiding in there with a file containing the password. Now I know not to skim! Did cat with the file name and it gave me the password.
Level 7>8: Entered the password and tried an "ls" and got a file, cat the file and then it spammed me with SO MUCH TEXT, very overwhelming. I figured I needed to search through the garbage to find what I needed so I took to google and I learned the "grep" command. I tried to use "grep millionth" and a few other variations of grep and nothing popped up. I decided to go back to the main page and it said to try to use the strings command. After searching for that and trying "strings data.text" and then saw someone suggest using "strings.data.text | grep "millionth". It's good to know to use the ".
Level 8>9: Entered password, did "ls" which gave me data.txt. Cat the data.txt and it dumped a ton of lines. I tried "sort data.txt" which sorted the info and I found the isolated line.


Level 9>10: After logging in, I performed "ls" and cat the data.txt file. It lead to a lot of letters and symbols. I had read about strings command and tried it out using "strings data.txt | grep "=" and it gave me the password!


Level 10>11: Password entered, "ls" and cat data.txt leads to a long string of letters and numbers. I tried using grep, and googled about base64 which seemed like the right call. I used "man base" which I learned in an article. "man base64". This brought up info about decoding and told me to use "-d" to decode. I tried that by its self and didn't work, so I tried "base64 -d data.txt" which didn't work. This stumped me for a while and It kept not allowing me to try that command, so I tried it again "ls", then tried "base64 -d data.txt" which finally gave me the password.
Level 11>12: I had to look up what rotating positions meant, this one seems tricky! I watched a few tutorials on it. I used "ls" to get data.txt and got the info I needed to rotate. I found a wiki page on ROT13 and learned the command "cat data.txt | tr a-zA-Z n-za-mN-ZA-M" which took the string and decided it into the password. 


Level 12>13: Logged in and read the site page which lead me to a wikipage about "hexdump", or a hexidecimal data view. I researched a bit more about the otw page suggesting I made a directory and I ended up making one using cmkdir /tmp/snail and then using cp to copy the file, I did cp data.txt /tmp/snail to move it over. I wanted to make sure it worked so I did cd /tmp/snail and an ls to check the files which showed "file.gz". I then used "file data.txt" and used man xxd. I tried a few different versions trying to figure out this command. I ended up doing xxxd -r data.txt and got stuck, so I looked it up and it said I needed to use xxd -r data.txt newdata to make a new file without a txt extention. After that I used file newdata and saw the zip, and I did man gzip to see I needed to add -d to decompress. I decompressed using gzip -d newdata.gz. checked to see what kind of file it was and it was bzip2. Then i did the same bthing before to decompress, and got a zip file again...then checked the file using file new data and it was a tar file. Had to look up what that was, basically an archive.  I had to keep looking this one up and it's really complicated and frusterating. I ended up just following along with a youtube video...untar the file, check the type, move and rename, uncompress, turns into a "data7" file. Checked the type on that, another tar, untar using tar -xvf data7" and got data8bin...checked that type and moved and renamed it then unzipped, uncompressed and got a readable ASCII. Cat its contects using cat data9 and got the password...my head hurts.


13>14: Entered that password and did "ls" which gave me "sshkey.private". The webpage suggested I needed to log into a private ssh and check a file only readable by user bandit14. I checked man ssh and read through it, it said to use -i to use a file with a private key to use for login. I used the sshkey.private file using "ssh -i./sshkey.private bandit14@localhost". I had to google to get the exact command structure, as I tried about 5 ways and had no luck, was taken down in my notebook to remember later. It asked if I wanted to continue and I said "yes" and it connected me. Then I knew the password was in the file listed on the site, so I cat that file "/etc/bandit_pass/bandit14 file" and got the password. 


14>15: Reading the page, it suggested I needed to submit the password of the current level to port 30000 on localhost. I googled how to do that and also checked the links provided under "Helpful reading material". I learned about telnet and how I can use it to connect to the port. I used "telnet localhost 300000" and looged in with the level 13 password and it gave the the new password.







